#Chess Amateur
[Online Version](https://creims.github.io/ChessAmateur/)

A chess application written for learning purposes. Inspired (loosely) by the old ChessMaster software.

The engine is written in C++ and compiled to WebAssembly using Emscripten, while the front end is written in HTML/CSS/JavaScript. Testing was done with [Catch2](https://github.com/catchorg/Catch2), an excellent C++ test framework.

Learning Goals:
- Develop an application from start to finish using Test Driven Development (TDD)
- Learn some C++
- Practice OO design that involves juggling abstraction/maintainability and performance
- Link a C++ interface to a responsive interactive website

##Thoughts on Test Driven Development
This has been my first foray into TDD, and it's been an enlightening experience.

It was very difficult to follow the "tests before code" rule at first. Part of that was due to inexperience with the TDD paradigm, and part was due to preconceptions about design left over from my work on previous engines. By the time I was close to having a working engine, the tests were coming more easily: the designs were cleaner and I had an easier time separating (and testing) functionality.

Writing tests forces you to think things through from a client's viewpoint. If you write a test for a piece of functionality before you even begin to implement it, you are, by necessity, designing to an interface and with distinct use cases. The better I adhered to test-first methodology, the better able I was to write modular, clean code.

The best part about TDD so far, though, has been the growing scaffold of unit tests. At any time, I can simply run the tests and know whether anything has broken. If it has, the tests usually tell me where to start looking. The time it took to write the tests was far, far outweighed by the time saved during refactors and the confidence it gives me to refactor in the first place. At this point, the tests feel more valuable than the actual implementations.

##Other
Thanks to chess.com for informing my user interface.

Some notes on using this code:
- If you'd like to run these tests for whatever reason, you must add [catch.hpp](https://github.com/catchorg/Catch2/releases/download/v2.7.2/catch.hpp) to the test folder.
- module.js and module.wasm were generated by [emscripten](https://emscripten.org/). If you'd like to compile it yourself, I included the compilation command I used in ca3_compile_emsdk
- genlogistics.py was used to precalculate arrays used to generate/validate moves. This includes directional data as well as king/knight movement data.